---
eip: 3756
title: Gas Limit Cap
description: Set an in-protocol cap for the gas limit
author: lightclient (@lightclient)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3756-gas-limit-cap/6921
status: 停滞
type: 标准跟踪
category: 核心
created: 2021-08-21
---

## 摘要

Set an in-protocol cap for the gas limit of 30,000,000.

## 动机

A high gas limit increases pressure on the network. In the benign case, it increases the size of the state and history faster than we can sustain. In the malicious case, it amplifies the devastation of certain denial-of-service attacks. In the benign case, it increases the size of the state and history faster than we can sustain. In the malicious case, it amplifies the devastation of certain denial-of-service attacks.

## 规范

As of the fork block `N`, consider blocks with a `gas_limit` greater than `30,000,000` invalid.

## 基本原理

### Why Cap the Gas Limit

The gas limit is currently under the control of block proposers. They have the ability to increase the gas limit to whatever value they desire. This allows them to bypass the EIP and All Core Devs processes in protocol decisions that may negatively affect the security and/or decentralization of the network.

### No Fixed Gas Limit

A valuable property of proposers choosing the gas limit is they can scale it down quickly if the network becomes unstable or is undergoing certain types of attacks. For this reason, we maintain their ability to lower the gas limit _below_ 30,000,000. For this reason, we maintain their ability to lower the gas limit _below_ 30,000,000.

## Backwards Compatibility
No backwards compatibility issues.

## Test Cases
待定

## Security Considerations
No security considerations.

## 版权声明
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
