---
eip: 2488
title: Deprecate the CALLCODE opcode
author: Alex Beregszaszi (@axic)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-2488-deprecate-the-callcode-opcode/3957
status: 停滞
type: 标准跟踪
category: 核心
created: 2019-12-20
requires: 7
---

## 摘要

Deprecate `CALLCODE` in a *somewhat* backwards compatible way, by making it always return failure.

## 动机

`CALLCODE` was part of the Frontier release of Ethereum. In the first few weeks/months it became clear that it cannot accomplish its intended design goal. `CALLCODE` was part of the Frontier release of Ethereum. In the first few weeks/months it became clear that it cannot accomplish its intended design goal. This was rectified with introducing `DELEGATECALL` ([EIP-7](./eip-7.md)) in the Homestead update (early 2016).

`CALLCODE` became never utilized, but it still puts a burden on EVM implementations.

Disabling it will not improve the situation for any client whose goal is to sync from genesis, but would help light clients or clients planning to sync from a later point in time.

## 规范

If `block.number >= FORK_BLOCK`, the `CALLCODE` (`0xf2`) instruction always returns `0`, which signals failure.

## 基本原理

It would be possible just to remove the opcode and exceptionally abort if it is encountered. However, by returning failure, the contract has a chance to act on it and potentially recover. However, by returning failure, the contract has a chance to act on it and potentially recover.

## Backwards Compatibility

This is a breaking change and has a potential to break contracts. This is a breaking change and has a potential to break contracts. The author expects no contracts of any value should be affected.

TODO: validate this claim.

## Security Considerations

TBA

## Test Cases

TBA

## 实现

TBA

## 版权声明

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
